im trying to run servr npm on macin by bitvice but when i close the thirmnal server stoped
ChatGPT

It sounds like you're encountering an issue where the server stops running when you close the terminal. This is a common problem when running a server process in a terminal session directly. Here are a few solutions you could try:

    Using nohup: You can use nohup (no hang up) command to run your server in the background, which will keep it running even after you close the terminal. Here's how you can do it:

    bash

    nohup npm start &

    This will start the npm run servr command in the background, and it won't be terminated when you close the terminal.

    Using screen or tmux: These are terminal multiplexer programs that allow you to create persistent terminal sessions. They keep processes running even if you disconnect from the session or close the terminal window.

        Using screen:
            Install screen if you haven't already (brew install screen).
            Start a screen session: screen -S myserver.
            Start your server (npm run servr).
            Detach from the screen session: Press Ctrl + A, then Ctrl + D.
            You can now close the terminal, and the server will continue running.
            To reattach to the screen session later: screen -r myserver.

        Using tmux: Similar to screen, but with some different commands.
            Install tmux if you haven't already (brew install tmux).
            Start a tmux session: tmux new -s myserver.
            Start your server (npm run servr).
            Detach from the tmux session: Press Ctrl + B, then D.
            You can close the terminal, and the server will continue running.
            To reattach to the tmux session later: tmux attach -t myserver.

Choose the method that suits you best. screen and tmux offer more flexibility in managing multiple terminal sessions and keeping processes running in the background.
nohup npm start &
[1]+  Exit 1                  nohup npm run servr
[1] 2317
nohup: ignoring input and appending output to 'nohup.out'
root@nj-mca:/home/nodejs#
ChatGPT

It seems like there might be a misunderstanding in how you're starting your server with nohup. The command you've used, nohup npm start &, is correct for starting a server in the background and ignoring hangup signals (which allows the server to continue running after you close the terminal).

However, the error message [1]+ Exit 1 nohup npm run servr suggests that there was an issue with the command npm run servr itself, not necessarily with nohup.

Here are a few things to check and try:

    Check your npm scripts: Make sure that you have a script named servr defined in your package.json file under the scripts section. It should look something like this:

    json

"scripts": {
  "servr": "node server.js"
}

Replace "node server.js" with the actual command you use to start your server.

Use the correct npm command: Ensure that you're using the correct npm command to start your server. For example, if your script is named servr, you should use npm run servr and not npm start.

Check for errors: If npm run servr produces errors or does not start the server correctly, nohup will capture those errors and may exit with a non-zero status. You should check the nohup.out file (which is where output is redirected when using nohup) for any error messages:

bash

    cat nohup.out

    This will show you what errors or output your server produced.

    Permissions: Ensure that you have the necessary permissions to run the server and write to nohup.out in the directory where you're running the command.

    Alternative approach: If nohup continues to be problematic, consider using screen or tmux as mentioned earlier. These tools provide more advanced session management capabilities and may be more reliable for keeping your server running in the background.

To summarize, make sure your npm script (servr) is correctly defined and that npm run servr runs without errors before trying to background it with nohup. If issues persist, consider using screen or tmux for managing your server process.
how i cancel it
ChatGPT

To cancel a process started with nohup, you typically need to find its process ID (PID) and then use the kill command to terminate it. Here’s how you can do it:

    Find the PID: You can find the PID of the nohup process by using the ps command along with grep to search for the process name or command.

    bash

ps aux | grep 'npm run servr'

This will output information about processes matching the name 'npm run servr'. Look for the PID in the output, typically in the second column.

Kill the process: Once you have identified the PID, use the kill command followed by the PID to terminate the process.

bash

    kill PID

    Replace PID with the actual process ID you found in the previous step.

Alternatively, you can use the pkill command if you know the name of the process:

bash

pkill -f 'npm run servr'

This will find and kill any processes whose command line matches 'npm run servr'.

After killing the process, you can verify that it has been terminated by checking if it still appears in the process list (ps aux | grep 'npm run servr'). It should no longer be listed.

If you used nohup with output redirection to nohup.out, you might want to remove or clean up the nohup.out file if it's no longer needed:

bash

rm nohup.out

This will delete the nohup.out file from the current directory.

These steps should help you effectively cancel and clean up after a nohup-started process.
